Makale Başlığı: The Capture of the Greek Chief Commander Trikopis
Özet: Greek General Trikopis who was the First Greek Corps Commander that had to withdraw from Afyonkarahisar wanted to unite with the General Franco’s forces, which he thought were in Dumlupınar, and to establish a new line of defence in this place. However, Trikopis tried to escape together with a part of accompanying forces by entering into a mountainous and forested area through Kızıltaş valley when the Turkish army surrounded the Greek forces in the Aslihanlar region in Dumlupınar. His aim this time was to meet with Franco in Uşak. When Uşak was captured by the Turkish forces on September 1, this hope of Trikopis  also disappeared.  The accompanying soldiers could not adequately nourish and rest. Undisciplined behaviours also began among his soldiers. He settled on the hill with an altitude of 1155 m on the south of Aşağı Karacahisar village and started to take defence measures. However, the soldiers did not want to fight against the Turks. Thereupon, Trikopis got a text explaining this case prepared and received the signatures of military officers. He decided to surrender under these circumstances. He specially wanted that the person to whom he would surrender was at the rank of division commander. He surrendered to the Turkish army on 2 September 1922 at around 18.15. The purpose of this study is to discuss the imprisonment and captivity process of Trikopis, the Greek Chief Commander, in the light of, primarily, archival resources, press of the period, memories, and other resources. The study will reveal who captured Trikopis, his dialogues and relations especially with Mustafa Kemal Pasha and other Turkish military officials during his captivity, and his life in captivity. There is no scientific study regarding the captivity of Trikopis. This research aspires to fill the mentioned gap.The research will use the techniques of history methodology including the classification, analysis, composition, criticism, interpretation, and comparison methods.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sadık SARISAMAN']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Afyon Kocatepe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akusosbil/issue/73524/1171758
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2635759
