Makale Başlığı: Executive Function Index: A Scale Adaptation Study
Özet: Objective: This study aimed to adapt the Executive Function Index (EFI) to Turkish. The psychometric characteristics of the scale were determined in the sample groups where the participants were university students.Materials and Methods: The linguistic equivalence of the scale was tested with the participation of 88 people, while data from 605 participants was used to test the construct and criterion validity and reliability of the measurement tool. 383 females and 219 males participated in the study. The age range of the participants was between 16 and 31, with a mean age of 21.93 (SD=2.47).Results: In order to identify the psychometric characteristics of the EFI, explanatory factor analysis, linear regression analysis, Pearson correlation analysis, and t-test were performed, and the Cronbach’s alpha internal consistency coefficient was calculated. The participants were administered the Frontal System Behavior Inventory, Short Form of Barratt Impulsivity Scale, and Interpersonal Reactivity Index to test the criterion validity of the EFI. The explanatory factor analysis conducted for construct validity showed that the Turkish version of the scale had the same number of sub-tests as the original EFI, and the Cronbach’s alpha reliability coefficients of the Turkish scale ranged from .54 to.76. The sub-tests of the scale were determined as impulse/impulse control, strategic planning, organization, empathy and motivational impulse. The linear regression analysis showed that age significantly predicted the total score, while gender did not predict the total score significantly. The t-test results showed that gender was significant only in impulse/impulse control and empathy sub-tests and had a moderate effect size. The results of the Pearson correlation analysis performed to test the criterion validity of the scale were mainly significant.Conclusion: The findings were largely similar to the original form of the scale. As a result, the research findings indicated that the scale could be used to measure the executive functions of Turkish university students.
Yazar isimleri: ['Hatice KAFADAR', 'Hasibe ARICAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Abant Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/abantmedj/issue/72077/1072722
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2250097
