Makale Başlığı: Turkish Great Offensive in French and English Resources
Özet: In this paper, French and English sources about the Great Offensive and the Battle of the Commander-in-Chief were evaluated. The sources of the study are the British, American and French press of the period, as well as French and English articles, journals and books on the subject. The preparation stage for the Great Offensive and the Great Offensive and the Battle of the Commander-in-Chief constitute the boundaries of this study. The aim of the study is to reveal the narrative of the Great Offensive, which resulted in the great defeat of Greekwastan, which was on the side of the Allies, in the sources of the Allies. Comparative analysis method was preferred in the study. Accordingly, primarily news and articles from different sources on the subject were identified, and approaches in different sources related to the same development were revealed. Finally, the news determined were included in the scope of the study after being compared with the real situation by making use of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Minutes, the news in the local press and archive documents. The most important possible findings of the study are that the information obtained by using the relevant sources contributes to the literature. It can be said that the British press mostly supported the Greeks from the beginning to the end of the Greek occupation. However, it should be noted that there are many unbiased news and comments in the British press. The French press mostly tried to remain impartial, and mostly news critical of the British were included. The American press has tried to present objective news to a large extent, excluding a small number of news for propaganda purposes.
Yazar isimleri: ['Mekki ULUDAĞ']
Yayın Yılı: 28 Kasım 2022
Dergi ismi: Afyon Kocatepe Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/akusosbil/issue/73524/1144189
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2539911
