Makale Başlığı: Examining of the Digital Literacy Level of Teacher Candidates
Özet: Information and information technologies progress quite rapidly, and influence social, economic, and daily life these days. Although information technologies accelerate access to information, they also reveal new areas of skills that must be acquired in order to reach the right information and use it effectively. In this context, the concept of Digital Literacy involves using different technologies correctly to access the right information, as well as to produce and share it. There is an obvious need for teachers who can design more systematic and flexible classroom environments to meet the educational needs of students from Z generation who are capable of using digital technologies effectively for their learning activities and social communication. Therefore, the objective of this study is to determine the digital literacy levels of teacher candidates and to investigate whether their digital literacy levels differ depending on variables such as gender, training program, housing and family income level. A survey design was used for this study. The research was carried out with 400 senior teacher candidates attending Faculty of Education at Erciyes University based in Kayseri, Turkey and 847 teacher candidates having their pedagogical formation training in the same school in the 2017-2018 academic year. Personal information forms and “Digital Literacy Scale” (DLS) were used as data collection tools. Data analysis was performed using Mann Whitney-U and Kruskal-Wallis nonparametric statistical methods. The results of the research indicate that teacher candidates' digital literacy level is low. Furthermore, digital literacy levels differ significantly in terms of gender and family income whereas this is not the case for program and housing status.
Yazar isimleri: ['Dürdane TOR', 'Semra DEMİR BAŞARAN', 'Ergün ARIK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ahi Evran Üniversitesi Kırşehir Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kefad/issue/72605/1047590
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2157943
