Makale Başlığı: Experiences of Classroom Teachers’ Reading and Writing Teaching in the Covid-19 Process
Özet: This study aims to reveal the views of classroom teachers on reading and writing teaching through distance education in the Covid-19 period. The phenomenology design was used in the study because it includes distance education experiences during the pandemic period and aims to determine the views of classroom teachers about the reading and writing teaching in the distance education process. The study group consists of 10 (6 male, 4 female) classroom teachers determined using the criterion sampling method. After the online reading and writing teaching, the data of this study were collected through semi-structured interviews when face-to-face education was started. Content analysis was used to analyze the data. In the findings obtained, it was seen that primary school teachers preferred to teach reading and writing through face-to-face education instead of distance education. They also stated that face-to-face training is more beneficial. The biggest problem faced by teachers in online training has been the difficulties experienced in dictation studies. Many teachers have stated that students have deficiencies in their writing activities. There were positive as well as negative opinions about the reading and writing contents in the Education and Information Network. One of the most striking findings from the teachers' views is that there is a greater need for family involvement in such processes. The biggest problem experienced in the online education platform was explained as the lack of internet. There were also teachers who thought that the contents were not suitable for the primary school student age group. In their suggestions for solutions to the problems they encountered, teachers stated that the internet infrastructure should be strengthened. As a result, this study is important in terms of looking at primary reading and writing teaching through online education from the perspective of classroom teachers and summarizing the current situation. In case of a possible distance education process, primary school teachers should be provided with alternative platforms and internet support in primary reading and writing teaching.
Yazar isimleri: ['Kayhan BOZGÜN']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Abant İzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/72822/1096803
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2346059
