Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Patients with Lymphadenopathy with Suspicion of Malignancy: A Single Center Experience
Özet: Aim: Lymphadenopathy is one of the most common causes of outpatient presentation in childhood. Generally, most cases can be diagnosed with a history and physical examination, and there is no need for additional testing. However, due to the fear of malignant disease, many tests are requested at the time of admission and the patients are followed up for a long time. It was aimed to evaluate the cases referred to Marmara University Faculty of Medicine Pediatric Oncology outpatient clinic with the suspicion of malignancy between 2012-2021 by analyzing the file data, retrospectively.Method: Demographic data of the patients, examinations, number of outpatient visits, follow-up periods, contribution of additional tests to the diagnosis and diagnoses were analyzed in three groups. Group A is the benign group with the cases with a LAP size of <2 cm on physical examination at the time of admission, group B is the other benign group includes the cases with a LAP size >2cm at the time of admission and group C is the malignant disease group.Results: In group C, the median age was statistically significantly higher than the other groups (p<0.001). Additional finding was statistically significant in more patients in the malignant group (p=0.002). Considering the number of outpatient admissions without diagnosis, it was seen that there were statistically significantly less number of admissions in the malignant group (p=0.026). There was no statistically significant difference between the three groups when evaluated in terms of gender, blood count pathological findings, mean follow-up time, and mean cervical USG counts.Conclusion: While the most common cause of childhood LAP etiology is benign causes, the most important step in diagnosis is history and physical examination. Apart from selected patients, additional, especially cross-sectional examinations should be requested due to both radiation exposure and the stress it will cause in families, and we think that the follow-up period of patients with benign causes should not be kept too long.
Yazar isimleri: ['Nurşah EKER']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Acta Medica Nicomedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/actamednicomedia/issue/73032/1124199
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2459181
