Makale Başlığı: Conditions for Being a Private Security Officer and the Authorities and Responsibilities of These Persons in Terms of Criminal Procedure
Özet: The private security officer is defined as persons employed to fulfill private protection and security services within the scope of the law in Article 4 of the “Regulation on the Implementation of the Law on Private Security Services”, issued based on the "Law on Private Security Services" numbered 5188. In our study, first of all, the conditions of being a private security officer will be evaluated. In this context, the conditions of being a private security officer are counted in the Article 10 of the Law No. 5188. In addition to some positive conditions sought to be a private security officer, the provision also stated that those convicted of certain crimes cannot be private security officers. The said provision was amended with the provision of 680 numbered Legislative Decree Law Article 69 and the conditions of being a private security officer were made more severe. In addition to this provision in question and the changes made will also be examined. We think it is necessary to evaluate the situation of the said amendment against the principles that rule the criminal law. Article 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code numbered 5271, it is stated who will be considered as judicial law enforcement officers. Since the private security officers are not counted in the regulation, we can say that the private security officers are the people who assist the judicial police. Because it is stated in both the law numbered 5188 and the regulation issued based on this law that private security officers can use certain authorization regarding the criminal procedure. In our study, we will try to determine what the limits of the authorization of these people are. According to Article 23 of Law No. 5188, private security officers will be punished like a public officer for the crimes they commit in connection with their duties; In the second paragraph, it is regulated that those who commit crimes against private security officers due to their duties will be punished as if they committed a crime against a public officer. The meaning of such expressions in our legislation should also be examined. In line with this article, both the commission of crimes against private security officers and the crime of private security officers will be evaluated.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet Hulusi AKKAŞ']
Yayın Yılı: 12 Aralık 2022
Dergi ismi: Adalet Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/adaletdergisi/issue/73791/1217749
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2826204
