Makale Başlığı: Effect of immediate dentin sealing procedure using different universal adhesive systems on the shear bond strength of self-adhesive resin cement
Özet: Objective: The aim of this in vitro study was to investigate the effect of immediate dentin sealing (IDS) procedure using different universal adhesive systems on the shear bond strength (SBS) of dual-cure self-adhesive luting cement. Materials and Method: Sixty sound human molar teeth were used. The coronal dentin surfaces were exposed with model trimmer device and ground with 600-grit silicon carbide paper under water cooling to obtain standard smear layers. Specimens were randomly divided into 4 groups according to the different types of universal adhesive systems used (n=15): Group 1 (control; C): no immediate dentin sealing; Group 2: Clearfil Universal Bond Quick (UBQ); Group 3: Single Bond Universal (SBU); Group 4: OptiBond Universal (OBU). Adhesive systems were applied in self-etch mode according to the manufacturers’ instructions. Then, self-adhesive luting cement (Nova Resin Cement) was bonded using cylinder-shaped silicone mold (diameter: 3 mm, height: 2 mm). The specimens were stored in distilled water for 24 h and subjected to SBS test at a crosshead speed of 1 mm/min using universal testing machine. Debonded surfaces were observed with a stereomicroscope under 15× magnification to determine the failure mode. Data were statistically analyzed with Kruskal Wallis and Dunn test (p<0.05).Results: Control group showed statistically lower shear bond strength than IDS-treated groups (p<0.05). Group 2 (UBQ) showed statistically higher SBS than Group 3 (SBU) (p<0.05). IDS-treated groups showed predominantly mixed failures while control group showed adhesive failure patterns.Conclusion: IDS procedures using universal adhesive systems improved the SBS of the self-adhesive luting cement. Besides, the highest shear bond strengths were obtained with Clearfil Universal Bond Quick which contains MDP and amide monomers.
Yazar isimleri: ['Şule Tuğba DENİZ', 'Burcu OGLAKCİ', 'Evrim ELİGÜZELOĞLU DALKILIÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 7 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Acta Odontologica Turcica
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/gaziaot/issue/72503/998434
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1986283
