Makale Başlığı: The Effects of Bupropion and Varenicline on Morphine Withdrawal Syndrome in Rats
Özet: Objective: Opioid dependence is a chronic complicated disorder characterized by relapse and remission. Chronic administration of morphine causes symptoms of physical and psychological dependence. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of anti-addictive drugs such as bupropion and varenicline on morphine dependence and naloxone precipitated withdrawal syndrome in a rat model.Materials and Methods: To assess the physical dependence of morphine, adult male Wistar rats were administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) increasing doses of morphine twice daily for 5 days, 4 hours after a single dose of morphine on day 6, and 15 minutes before subcutaneous (s.c.) naloxone (2 mg/kg, s.c.) administration to elicit withdrawal symptoms. Physical dependence was evaluated by injecting bupropion (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg, i.p.) and varenicline (0.5. 1, and 2 mg/kg, s.c.) for 15 minutes.Results: The morphine-dependent rats more significantly demonstrated withdrawal symptoms than naive control rats. The results elucidated that administration of bupropion and varenicline during induction of morphine dependence attenuated the most of the severity of withdrawal symptoms. Co-administration of bupropion with morphine reduced withdrawal symptoms such as jumping, wet dog shaking, weight loss and total withdrawal symptoms. Co-administration of varenicline with morphine was found to be effective on withdrawal symptoms such as bupropion, but had no effect on weight loss.Conclusion: These outcomes provide preliminary data which show that bupropion and varenicline can be used as a candidate drugs to attenuate morphine withdrawal symptoms.
Yazar isimleri: ['Oruç YUNUSOĞLU', 'Çagla KÖSE', 'Andleeb SHAHZADİ', 'Sibel ÖZYAZGAN', 'Bülent DEMİR', 'Burak ÖNAL', 'Ahmet Gökhan AKKAN']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Abant Tıp Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/abantmedj/issue/72077/1120849
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2445347
