Makale Başlığı: A Descriptive Content Analysis of Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge Studies in Mathematics Education
Özet: The aim of this study; It is the examination of postgraduate theses on Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK) published in mathematics education in Turkey between 2009-2020. The study is a descriptive research type in which the qualitative research method is adopted. The universe of the research consists of 39 postgraduate thesis studies published in YÖK National Thesis Center. The Thesis Review Form developed by the researchers was used as a data collection tool. The data were analyzed by descriptive content analysis. Theses examined within the scope of the research; Theses are classified according to their publication year, types, universities where they are published, institutes where they are studied, sample types and sizes, research approaches, research methods, data collection tools and data analysis methods. As a result of the research; It was found that the most of theses were published in 2017, the majority of theses were published in Marmara University and they were studied in Educational Sciences Institutes. It was seen that the theses examined mostly used the sample of pre-service teachers and the sample size between 101-300. It has been concluded that the research approaches of the majority of theses are qualitative and the research methods are case studies. It was found that most of the theses preferred interview, observation and scale tools as data collection tools and descriptive analysis and content analysis as data analysis methods. It is thought that this research will contribute to the literature in terms of identifying the missing themes in the literature, and therefore, it will reveal new research areas for researchers. Due to the coexistence of theses on the subject, it is anticipated that this research will be a qualified resource for researchers who will study this subject because all theses related to the subject are together.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ayşe Arzu ARI', 'Betül BAYDAR IŞIK']
Yayın Yılı: 19 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Academia Eğitim Araştırmaları Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egitim/issue/69568/1086235
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2303379
