Makale Başlığı: Pre-service social studies teachers’ Utopias and Dystopias on Citizenship
Özet: The current global issues in health, finance and technology in the 21st century have brought up significant questions on the future of humanity. Issues such as the coronavirus pandemic, artificial intelligence, and crypto money challange traditional behavior and thought patterns. Based on current issues scholars argued that consequences of social conditions and expected current and future roles and responsibilities of citizens should be addressed in citizenship education. Creating fictions regarding ideal society can improve responsible, participatory citizenship attitudes, knowledge and behaviors. In this context, utopian/dystopian fictions have potential on developing students' imagination of the social, political and cultural structure of society. This research aims to examine the fictional utopian and dystopian stories of pre-service social studies teacher about citizenship. The research is important in terms of showing pre-service teachers’ insights on citizenship, the roles and responsibilities of citizens, human rights, democracy, participation, politics, state and constitution in their utopian/dystopian fictions. Narrative inquiry design was implemented in this study in order to be able to study a the notion of citizenship holistically. The research data consists of 10 different utopian/dystopian stories created by 44 students. In the analysis of the data, the problem solution narrative analysis technique was applied. The results of the research show that pre-service teachers envision a leader-oriented political system, and they portray decision makers as leaders who are described as "good" or "bad". On the other hand, it was inferred that pre-service teachers’ ideal participation type is elections. While elections are handled as the only form of democratic participation in most of the narratives, few narratives included other forms of participation such as protest, petition. Based on the results, it has been suggested that future studies focusing on participation should be carried out and that citizenship theories should be handled more strongly with effective teaching methods and techniques in teacher education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Fatih OZTURK', 'Serdar MALKOÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ahi Evran Üniversitesi Kırşehir Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kefad/issue/72605/1054856
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2180623
