Makale Başlığı: An Assessment of Books’ Contents in Children's Libraries by Children's Epistemological Development: Children's Library in Gazıantep
Özet: This study aimed to examine the texts in children's books regarding epistemological development and information types. The research data consisted of 30 children's books in Gaziantep Metropolitan Municipality Güvenevler Children's Library, published in Turkish or translated into Turkish between 2015-2020. In this qualitative research, the data were collected using the document analysis technique. The researcher developed the "Assessment Form for Information Types in Children's Books" and chose the books following a review of the literature and data collection tools of similar studies in other fields.  There are six information types in the form: everyday information, technical information, aesthetic information, scientific information, religious information, and philosophical information. The information sentences were noted in the assessment form with their usage frequency and page numbers in the books. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics, and frequency (f) and percentage (%) were measured accordingly. The study results revealed that everyday and scientific information types were the most commonly used types, and philosophical and religious information was the least used types. In the literature, there are several studies on illustrated children's books. Researchers have evaluated different aspects of those books by specific criteria, and they primarily focused on those books’ effects on education. However, no study in the literature assessed them by information types. Thus, the study findings can guide future researchers and practitioners to carry out multidimensional studies on epistemological development. Besides, it is recommended that the authors and publishers produce and publish children's literature works by considering children's epistemological development.
Yazar isimleri: ['Sakine HAKKOYMAZ']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: Ahi Evran Üniversitesi Kırşehir Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/kefad/issue/72605/1014886
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2046959
