Makale Başlığı: AN ASSESSMENT MODEL FOR PARTICIPATORY ARCHITECTURE: KUZGUNCUK GARDENS EXAMPLE
Özet: It is crucial to evaluate the architectural production processes through the concept of participation because the thoughts and comments that emerge as a result of the evaluation will contribute to the current architectural environment. Since 1960s the integrity of theory, research, and practice that has been put forward combined with user-oriented architectural movements, has enabled new developments and potentials. For this reason, it is necessary to observe and evaluate user-oriented studies that aim to establish the integrity of theory, research and practice to unfold the results in all their complexity. The outputs of the research can serve as a reference for targeted polyphonic architectural production processes in the future. The proposed method makes these interaction networks visible, applying them to participatory architecture processes. In this way, today's design tools have the potential to involve participants in the process. The present study proposes the hypothesis that these potentialities can be demonstrated by observing, evaluating, re-discussing, and interpreting previous studies. The article seeks to evaluate the relationship between users’ participation in architectural processes and the network of actors-stakeholders who take part in participatory approaches. The concept of participatory architecture is vital for future experiences of architecture in order to revive the development of architectural practice in Turkey. Therefore, to provide a guideline model for architects and researchers engaging in participatory architecture processes. The study’s goals are: (1) clarifying the reasons of area defense with solidarity and evaluating the level of participation in architectural practice, (2) examining stakeholder typology assessments, and (3) observation participation techniques and tactics in processes. This research includes descriptive analysis of the Kuzguncuk Bostan Recovery and Protection Project as a case study and qualitative analysis examining participatory processes with the multi-dimensional model (EMParArc). Through this multi-dimensional model, this article emphasizes an alternative framework for the assessment of architectural participation methods in holistic processes that provide inclusive spaces in particular needers in Turkey and other non-develop and developing countries.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ali Kemal TERLEMEZ', 'Orhan HACİHASANOGLU']
Yayın Yılı: 8 Ağustos 2022
Dergi ismi: A+Arch Design International Journal of Architecture and Design
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aarch/issue/72049/1026214
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2091173
