Makale Başlığı: An Educational Institution that Leaves a Mark: Bolu Girls' Teachers' School (1952-1975)
Özet: Teacher training is an important part of renewing and improving the countries' education systems. Bolu Kizilcullu Girls Village Institute, Bolu Girls Village Institute, and the Bolu Girls' Primary School were examined.  When we look at the history of the school, it is seen that its history is based on Izmir Kizilçullu. Bolu Kizilçullu Girls Village Institute started its educational activities in 1952 after being transferred to the Forest School buildings in Bolu with the teachers and students of the Kizilçulu girl village institute.  In 1954, the Village Institutes were converted into primary schools. The school was called "Bolu Girls Teacher School". The school was closed 1980, on September 12; In 1981, the school's buildings were transferred to Bolu Vocational High School of Hospitality and Tourism.  Our study aims to unearth the functioning of the Bolu Girls Teacher School and reveal the services it provides to education.  This research is the product of a study for document review and archival review based on the qualitative research method.  The study examined information about the establishment of the school, teachers, student selection, education; documents from schools, newspapers that shed light on the period, and scientific works.  The students at this school were trained in the practice, playing at least one instrument, and sewing and embroidering; they also contributed to the production by farming. They were able to adapt everywhere by doing village and city internships. Bolu Girls Teacher School has trained many valuable female teachers in the country during its significant activities with its organization structure, administrator, and educational staff.  This school has always been an excellent institution that has set an example in all aspects of teacher training.
Yazar isimleri: ['Derya KAYA', 'Fahri KILIÇ']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Abant İzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/72822/1118327
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2435078
