Makale Başlığı: Evaluation of Fate Perception and Moral Maturity Levels of Persons Infected with COVID-19 in the Framework of Disaster Risk Management
Özet: It was aimed to evaluate the perception of fate and moral maturity levels of people living in a province in the Eastern Anatolia Region of Turkey and infected with COVID-19 within the framework of disaster risk management. The study was carried out in accordance with the qualitative research design and was supported by quantitative data. Data were collected through the Participant Information Form, the Moral Maturity Scale, the Theistic Fate Perception Scale and the Questionnaire Structured in the Framework of Disaster Risk Management. Content analysis was performed on qualitative data. When 48 participants were reached in the study, the qualitative data reached saturation. 54.2% of the 48 participants were women and 45.8% were men. 43.8% of the participants were between the ages of 18-28, 58.3% of them were bachelor graduates, 58.3% of them were civil servants. According to the quantitative results, the moral maturity of the participants were at a high level. It was concluded that the participants perceived the situations related to disasters as fate. According to the qualitative results, some of the participants stated that fate was stronger than the measures we would take. In the theme of "Allah has tied the destiny of every servant to his own efforts", some participants also evaluated their catching the disease as related to their belief in destiny, which they did not ignore their individual responsibilities. Some participants believed in the necessity of taking precautions during the illness, but stated that they neglected to take precautions for various reasons. It was understood that some participants fulfilled their individual responsibilities by following the precautionary rules, but tried to cope with the weight of individual responsibility by externalizing. Traditional perception of fate negatively affected the behavior of taking precautions against disasters. Therefore, multidisciplinary studies are needed to take precautions against disasters and to provide necessary psychosocial care during and after disasters.    
Yazar isimleri: ['Mehtap KILIÇ', 'Bahanur MALAK']
Yayın Yılı: 31 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Afet ve Risk Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/afet/issue/73264/1014571
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2045661
