Makale Başlığı: Periarticular Injection of Ranawat Suspension in Combination with Tranexamic Acid Reduces Bleeding and Postoperative Pain in Total Knee Arthroplasty
Özet: Objective: The benefits of periarticular injections of local anesthetic agents or tranexamic acid  have been previously evaluated in terms of their effects on postoperative pain in a number of orthopedic studies. However, data is lacking on the efficacy of local anesthetic and tranexamic acid combinations that may be used for this purpose. We aimed to investigate the effects of periarticular injection of both tranexamic acid and Ranawat suspension on postoperative pain and bleeding in patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty.Methods: A total of 124 patients who underwent total knee arthroplasty were consecutively enrolled in this study. Patients were divided into two groups: those receiving the periarticular injection of a cocktail containing the combination of Ranawat suspension and Tranexamic acid and those receiving no injections. Postoperative pain, postoperative tramadol requirement and blood loss were compared between groups.Results: Hemoglobin and hematocrit levels were significantly higher at third day postoperatively in recipients of periarticular Ranawat suspension and tranexamic acid combination (p=0.044 and p=0.047, respectively). In addition, the amount of drainage blood loss (p<0.001) and need for blood transfusions (p=0.009) were significantly higher in patients receiving no periarticular injections. Moreover, analgesic requirements were also significantly lower during the first 72 hours in recipients of periarticular injections compared to those receiving no injections. Conclusion: Periarticular injection of a cocktail containing the combination of Ranawat suspension and tranexamic acid in patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty is effective in reducing blood loss, pain and additional analgesic requirement, without causing an increase in major complications.
Yazar isimleri: ['Ülker MORALAR', 'Çağdaş PAMUK']
Yayın Yılı: 15 Ekim 2022
Dergi ismi: Acta Medica Nicomedia
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/actamednicomedia/issue/73032/1146576
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/2549654
