Makale Başlığı: Content Analysis of the Measurement and Evaluation Activities for Distance Education Carried Out in Turkey
Özet: The purpose of this research is to examine the studies conducted on the measurement and evaluation activities for distance education in Turkey and to reveal the general research trends. In order to determine the articles to be examined in the study, Web of Science, which lists high-impact factor journals, was searched in Google Scholar databases to reach more articles. In addition, theses published in YÖK Thesis database, which are within the scope of the research, were also included in the study. 45 publications related to measurement and evaluation in distance education were identified in the determined databases and these publications were analyzed by content analysis method. The studies reached were examined in terms of publication type, publication year, research method, study group, sample size, data collection tool, examined theme and research topics. The collected data were presented in figures, tables and frequency and percentage statistics. According to the findings obtained as a result of the content analysis, it was determined that the studies were mostly in the form of articles and between 2015-2018, quantitative research methods were used more in the studies and the interview form was preferred as the data collection tool. It was observed that the study group consisted mostly of undergraduate students, and the sample size was mostly between 31-100. From the point of view of the studied theme, it was determined that the theme of impact on academic success is mostly based, while the research topic is mostly based on online exams. It is thought that the findings of the research will contribute to other future studies on measurement and evaluation in distance education.
Yazar isimleri: ['Aykut DURMUŞ', 'Yiğit Emrah TURGUT']
Yayın Yılı: 30 Eylül 2022
Dergi ismi: Abant İzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eğitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayın sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/72822/998805
Yayın pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1987487
