Makale Baþlýðý: BIBIOMETRIC RESEARCH ON CITIZENSHIP EDUCATION: ANALYSIS OF STUDIES BETWEEN 1980-2020
Özet: 
Öz
The aim of this research is to perform a bibliometric analysis of articles on citizenship / citizenship education in the category of educational research in the Web of Science Core Collection database. Bibliometric research reveals the general framework of research carried out in a particular field of science or subject area. This research has been carried out in descriptive scanning model. The researches obtained with certain limitations in line with the purpose of the research in the Web of Science database have been downloaded as a "txt" file. The data were analyzed using the "bibliometrix" package in the R-Studio programming language in the R program, which is an open source statistical program. As a result of the analysis carried out; It was determined that the top three countries producing the most articles on citizenship education in the Web of Science database are the USA, the United Kingdom and Spain, and the countries most open to cooperation are Spain and the United Kingdom. Ian Davies and Audrey Osler were found to be the authors with the highest h-index for citizenship education research. It has been determined that the first three journals with the most published articles on this subject are "Journal of Curriculum Studies", "Theory and Research in Social Education" and "Education Citizenship and Social Justice". When current trends are examined, it is concluded that there is a great interest in keywords such as digital citizenship, critical citizenship, identity, critical pedagogy, racism and injustice in the field of citizenship education. It is thought that this research will provide a comprehensive projection for researchers planning to do research in the field of citizenship education.

Yazar isimleri: ['Adem KARACA', 'Bülent AKBABA']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/904375
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1666490
