Makale Baþlýðý: SCIENCE TEACHERS VIEWS ABOUT HIGH SCHOOL ENTRANCE EXAM
Özet: 
Öz
Different exam types have been conducted for the transition system of secondary education in Turkey. Students can be placed in secondary education institutions with and without examination with the system changed in 2018. However, secondary school students who want to study in high schools that are called qualified; they participate the Central Exam, which is applied within the scope of the High School Transition System. This exam is called the High School Transition Exam (HSTE). In the exam, students who are in a certain percentile, continue formal education in high schools that are called qualified. Changes have been conducted in the question styles of the exams applied in transition to secondary education with the renewal of the curriculum, it is thought that the quality of understanding, interpretation and reasoning is high for the questions used in the exams. It was aimed to determine the opinions of science teachers about High School Transition Exam in the research. Working group of the research included science teachers working in public schools. A semi-structured interview form was prepared to determine the science teachers' opinions. The interview form was prepared in the presence of an expert and necessary arrangements were conducted. The form consists of five open-ended questions which are related to views about exam, the difficulties faced by the students, and suggestions of science teachers. Content analysis was used in the analysis of the data. Moreover, percentage and frequency tables were formed by coding the qualitative data obtained from science teachers' opinions. The research indicated that the questions of the exam measure high-level skills such as reading comprehension, interpretation, and problem solving. In this context, teaching activities should be prepared to develop the high-level skills of the students.

Yazar isimleri: ['Ahmet Volkan YÜZÜAK', 'Turgut ARSLAN']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/847653
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1470910
