Makale Baþlýðý: AN ANALYSIS OF POLITICAL PARTIES’ EDUCATION POLICIES IN THE CONTEXT OF NEOLIBERALISM
Özet: 
Öz
The aim of this study is to expose the proximate of the education policies of political parties to neoliberalism. For this aim, the educational policies of AK Party CHP, MHP, IYI Party, and HDP, who have a group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are analyzed. Other declarations which are out of political parties programs are not in analysis extension. In this study, the content analysis technique is used, which is a qualitative research method. In the analysis, educational objectives were determined first. These objectives are coded and divided into categories and themes. When looking at the party’s program of educational aims, clearly seen that AK Party, CHP, IYI Party, and MHP have so many similar purposes. Key concepts such as competition, success, and skill adopted by neoliberalism are included in the programs of these parties at various levels. AK Party, CHP, and IYI Party adopt a more neoliberal line with the goals such as supporting the private sector and strengthening cooperation with the private sector. On the other hand, different social goals are also seen in the program of these four parties, which may partially contradict neoliberalism. These social goals differ slightly due to the ideological foundations of the parties. At this point, the strongest social emphasis belongs to the MHP with its nationalism and unitary state discourse. According to HDP programs, they emphasize the efficiency of public schools in education. They argue against separating by way of examination and competitive pressure on students. HDP expresses that they reject neoliberalism in the context of economic policies. On the other hand, they emphasize the importance of pluralism and identity politics in education. Hence, it can be said that HDP's educational policies outside the economic field are post-modernist and close to neoliberalism.

Yazar isimleri: ['Hakký KAHVECÝ']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/795440
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1292431
