Makale Baþlýðý: Elementary School Teachers' and Students' Opinions on The EBA Platform In Pandemic Process
Özet: 
Öz
During the global epidemic that affected the whole world, the continuity of education and training activities was tried to be provided by distance education. The Education Information Network (EBA) application, which existed before in our country, has been the main platform where distance education is carried out. The aim of this study is to evaluate EBA applications in line with the opinions of elementary school teachers and students. This study was conducted in an exploratory sequential design, one of the mixed research methods, and its quantitative dimension is in the survey model, its qualitative dimension is a phenomonography. While the survey model was used in the quantitative part of the study, the phenemonograhy was used in the qualitative part. The research group consists of 263 elementary school teachers and 10 students. In the study, data were collected with a questionnaire form consisting of 18-item open-ended questions developed by Sönmez, Yýldýrým and Çetinkaya (2020) and a semi-structured interview form with 12 questions. SPSS 25 package program was used for quantitative data in the analysis of the data, and the qualitative data were analyzed by descriptive analysis. In the study, it was found that teachers think that the course time is sufficient in EBA, the content is appropriate to the student level, but EBA alone is not sufficient in teaching and they have difficulty in reaching their students. Teachers' views do not differ according to age, professional seniority, class level and service area. Students' opinions are that they mostly access EBA by phone, use resources other than EBA in lessons, have difficulties in assignments, and consider EBA inadequate in terms of physical activities. Suggestions have been made to improve the EBA by taking into account the opinions and needs of students and teachers

Yazar isimleri: ['Þafak ULUÇINAR SAÐIR']
Yayýn Yýlý: 19 Ekim 2021
Dergi ismi: Academia Eðitim Araþtýrmalarý Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/egitim/issue/62242/901669
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1656591
