Makale Baþlýðý: ANALYZING OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OCCUPATIONAL PROFESSIONALISM AND PROFESSIONAL SELF-ESTEEM OF PRESCHOOL TEACHERS
Özet: 
Öz
The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between occupational professionalism of preschool teachers and their occupational self-respect. The study group of the research designed in the relational screening model consisted of 449 participants working as preschool teachers. Data from the study were obtained using the Occupational Professionalism of Teachers Scale and Arýcak Occupational Self-Respect Scale. As a result, it is determined that there is a moderate, positive and significant relationship between preschool teachers' professional self-esteem and occupational professionalism. In addition, according to the results obtained in terms of the variables examined in the study, professional self-esteem makes a difference in favor of teachers working in private schools according to the school type variable and do not make a difference according to the age variable. When the variable of education level is taken into consideration, it has been observed that as the education level increases, professional self-esteem increases. In addition, there is a significant difference in favor of female teachers in the sub-dimensions of professional professionalism, personal development, professional sensitivity, emotional labor and total scores. There is a significant difference in favor of teachers aged 41 and over in contribution to the institution, emotional labor and total scores. There is a significant difference in favor of teachers with postgraduate education in the sub-dimension of personal development. It is found that there is a significant difference in favor of associate degree teachers in contribution to the institution, emotional labor and total score. It has been concluded that teachers with 16 years or more professional experience have significantly higher professional professionalism scores than other groups, and teachers working in private schools have significantly higher professional professionalism scores than those working in public schools.

Yazar isimleri: ['Özgül POLAT', 'Sezgin BALABAN']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/913001
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1697266
