Makale Baþlýðý: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SECONDARY SCHOOL STUDENTS' WRITING SKILLS, ATTITUDES TOWARDS WRITING, AND WRITING MOTIVATIONS
Özet: 
Öz
This research was carried out to determine the relationship between writing attitudes, writing motivations, and writing skills of 6th, 7th, and 8th-grade students, and to what extent students' attitudes and motivations towards writing predict their writing success. The research was conducted according to the relational screening model. The universe of the study consists of all secondary school students studying in Aksaray province in the 2019-2020 academic year, and the sample is 450 students selected by simple selective sampling method. A rubric developed by Sezer (2005) was used to evaluate students' writing skills. In the research, the Writing Attitude Scale developed by Can and Topçuoðlu Ünal (2017) was used to determine the writing attitudes of secondary school students, and the Writing Motivation Scale developed by Yaman et al. (2016) was used to determine their writing motivation. At the end of the study, it was determined that the written expression skills of the students were at a medium level, and there were significant differences between the writing scores of female and male students in favor of female students. According to the research findings, as the father's education level increases, the students' writing scores also increase statistically. The habit of keeping a diary affects students' writing skills positively. When the correlation coefficients between writing skills, writing attitude, and writing motivation scores are examined, it is seen that the highest relationship is between writing attitude scores and writing motivation scores, and the lowest relationship is between writing skills scores and writing motivation scores. In addition, the correlation values of the three scales with each other give positive and significant results.

Yazar isimleri: ['Tuncay TÜRKBEN']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/788146
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1265286
