Makale Baþlýðý: SUGGESTIONS OF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ON COMPULSORY DISTANCE EDUCATION
Özet: 
Öz
The purpose of this research is to determine the positive and negative opinions of university students about compulsory distance education. Case study design, one of the qualitative research methods, was used in the study. The easily accessible technique was used in determining the study group of the research. In line with the purpose of the study, a study group consisting of distance education university students who are knowledgeable about the research subject was determined. In the study group determined for this research, a total of 1004 university students, 403 from Muþ Alparslan University and 601 from Bingöl University, who studied distance education in the 2019-2020 academic year, took place. Descriptive and content analysis technique was used in the analysis of the data obtained in the study. According to some results of the research, in the first applications of distance education, which is being implemented due to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, students suggested that academicians can be understanding and flexible, communicate well with the student, and behave in an attitude that facilitates the process. Regarding the exam system, they argued that it should be simpler and more understandable, exams should be in the form of homework, and grades should be given more fairly. They emphasized the importance of conducting distance education with live lessons and videos and making remedial trainings when necessary. They stated that they have problems such as internet connection and network. According to the results of the research, it is suggested that the quality of "home education" should be increased.

Yazar isimleri: ['Nesip DEMÝRBÝLEK', 'Fulya ATÝLA']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/816505
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1364301
