Makale Baþlýðý: SUPERVISORY ROLES OF SCHOOL PRINCIPALS AS THE PREDICTOR OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL SOCIALIZATION OF TEACHERS
Özet: 
Öz
This study seeks to examine the relationship between school principals’ supervisory roles and teachers' organizational socialization levels. The research is a quantitative study carried out via the relational survey model. The sample of the study was determined by the simple random sampling method. 1103 teachers participated in the study. The supervisory roles of school principals were determined by the “Supervisory Roles of School Principals Scale” developed by Bayraktutan (2011) while teachers’ organizational socialization levels were determined by the “Organization Socialization scale” developed by Chao et al. (1994) and adapted into Turkish by Balcý et al. (2016). The results reveal that there is a positive and moderate-level relationship between the fulfilment of supervisory roles and perceived organizational socialization. As more practices are performed regarding the fulfilment of supervisory roles of school principals, an increase is likely to occur in teachers' levels of learning and using words, language (jargons), and abbreviations related to their profession (language dimension), learning levels of the history and traditions of the school (history dimension), levels of understanding the values, goals, and policies of the school (goals and values dimension and policies dimension), and levels of the specifics, skills, abilities, and informal relationship as part of the job (performance and people dimension). On the other hand, it was concluded that the supervisory roles of school principals are a significant predictor of teachers' organizational socialization.

Yazar isimleri: ['Serdar HAZAR', 'Ahmet SAYLIK']
Yayýn Yýlý: 15 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Abant Ýzzet Baysal Üniversitesi Eðitim Fakültesi Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/aibuefd/issue/64908/914879
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1702168
