Makale Baþlýðý The Effect of Coronavirus Disease on Nutrition and Physical Activity Status of Adults; COVID-19 and Nutrition

Öz
Aim: This research was planned to evaluate the nutritional and physical activity status of adult individuals before and during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19).
Material and Methods: 579 adult individuals aged 20-65 years participated in this descriptive and comparative study. The novel coronavirus is transmitted through respiration and droplet. For this reason, the questionnaire was not made face-to-face in order to protect against the virus and was sent to volunteers in electronic environment. In the study, McNemar test, McNemar-Bowker test and Paired sample t test were used to compare the nutritional habits and physical activity status before the COVID-19 pandemic and during the pandemic period.
Results: It was determined that the individuals with the average age of 30.8 ± 8.9 years were the most preferred vitamin D (44.3%) and the most preferred mineral was zinc (21.4%) for protection from COVID-19. It was found that individuals skipped lunch more than during the pandemic period (p <0.001). In contrast, it has been determined that there is a significant increase in consumption of three or more snacks per day (p <0.001). It was shown in our study that individuals' sleep duration increased and moderate levels of physical activity decreased during the pandemic period (p <0.001). In addition, there was a significant difference in meat, eggs, nuts, dairy products, fruits, vegetables, cereal products, sugary foods and coffee consumption (p <0.05). There was no significant change in consumption of legumes, junk food, black tea, herbal tea, alcohol, cola and carbonated drinks (p> 0.05).
Conclusion: According to the data obtained from the study, it can be said that there is an increase in the frequency of food consumption and a decrease in the duration of physical activity, mostly during the COVID-19 pandemic period. However, it should be noted that the implementation of healthy lifestyle behaviors is among the important measures to be taken against COVID-19.

Ýsimleri: ['Sevtap KÜÇÜKCANKURTARAN', 'Yahya ÖZDOÐAN']
Yayýn Yýlý: 20 Eylül 2021
Dergi ismi: Düzce Üniversitesi Saðlýk Bilimleri Enstitüsü Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/duzcesbed/issue/64450/754560
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1157183
