Makale Baþlýðý Features and Qualifications of Higher Education Institutions That Will  Train the Journalist of Industry 4.0 Process

Öz
The societies adapt to new techniques and technologies too fastly in each Industrial Revolution. The next Industrial Revolution is Industry 4.0. The advanced economies will try to improve themselves on the area of education, communication and technology to find a good place in the world that turns thriving with Industry 4.0. For this reason, initial studies of Industry 4.0 is made by academic world. Concept of Industry 4.0 was used for the fist time at the fair of Hannover in 2011. The thought of ‘Industry 4.0 is only about Industry’ is completely wrong. Industry 4.0 Revolution’s innovations will be included every area of life, especially communication, education and technology. Advanced technology and accurate communication is depend on education support. Communication, technology and education have strong interactions with each others. Education is very important for the advancement of other sectors, for this reason education has been the greatest advantage. In terms of announcing the importance of education, the telecommunications sector had been indispensable. In this study, higher education institutions which will train telecommunications sector employee was examined in terms of quality and capability. The fist part is introduction. Secondly the higher education institutions’ progress was explained in chronological order. Thirdly, the higher education institutions are explained in terms of technology use, orientation period and imperfections. Lastly, journalism’s higher educational institutions in Industry 4.0 are explained. Methodologies of this study are literature survey and construction

Ýsimleri: ['Birol AKGÜL', 'Ecem EZGÝ YILDIZ', 'Beste TURÞUCUOÐLU']
Yayýn Yýlý: 1 Haziran 2018
Dergi ismi: Akademia Sosyal Bilimler Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/asj/issue/40224/479032
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/568050
