Makale Baþlýðý Are Anthropometric Features and Physical Fitness Parameters Related to  Swimming Performance in Children?

Öz
The aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between anthropometric features, some physical fitness parameters and swimming performances in children who do swimming. In this study, the research group consisted of, 24 girls with a mean age of 10.00±0.83 years and 24 boys with a mean age of 9.91±0.82 years. In this research, the selected anthropometric features of swimmers, some physical features and 50-meter swimming performances are measured. There is negative relationship between right handgrip strength, left hand grip strength, flexibility, hand length, standing long jump and balance with 50-meter free style swimming performance of girls (p<0,05). There is not found any relationship foot width with 50-meter swimming performance (p>0,05). Significant negative correlations were found between 50 meters freestyle swimming performance of girls and right-hand grip strength, left hand grip strength, flexibility, standing long jump and balance (p<0,05). There was a significant negative correlation between 50-meter freestyle swimming performance and stroke length of boys, while no significant relationship was found between other anthropometric features and 50-meter swimming performance (p<0,05). A significant negative correlation was found between 50 meters freestyle swimming performance and standing long jump values (p<0,05). As a conclusion, based on the findings obtained from the study, it can be said that anthropometric features and some physical fitness characteristics play a determining role on swimming children, and that a desired improvement can be achieved in swimming performance with regular studies on the development of these features in training.

Ýsimleri: ['Elzem BOZKURT', 'Kemal GÖRAL']
Yayýn Yýlý: 30 Haziran 2021
Dergi ismi: Spor Bilimleri Araþtýrmalarý Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jssr/issue/62015/905310
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1670259
