Makale Baþlýðý Examining the Relationship Between Physical Activity, Quality of Life and Burnout Levels in Nurses

Öz
The study was aimed to examine the relationship between physical activity, quality of life and burnout levels in nurses. Physical Activity, and SF-36 Quality of Life Questionnaries and Maslach Burnout Inventory were applied to 212 nurses working at Hitit University Erol Olcok Training and Research Hospital. Since Shapiro-Wilk test results revealed that the data were not normally distributed (p<0.05), Mann-Whitney U was used to compare two groups and Kruskal-Wallis H was used to compare multiple groups. Correlations were analyzed using Spearman’s rho. The statistical significance level was determined as p<0.05. SPSS 22.0 (IBM Corp., USA) was utilized for the statistical analysis. Statistical analysis revealed that there were statistically significant differences in the physical functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems, energy/vitality, social functioning, pain, general health and emotional well-being sub-dimensions of SF-36 in favor of men. Personal accomplishment, a sub-dimension of Maslach Burnout Inventory, scores revealed that those with low seniority and single ones found themselves to be unsuccessful. It has been shown that the increase in obesity level had a detrimental effect in sub-dimensions of physical functioning and role limitations due to emotional problems. It was found that nurses working in inpatient wards had the lowest SF-36 scores. It was also found that there was a positive but weak correlation only between the physical activity level and physical functioning sub-dimension of quality of life. There was no correlations between physical activity level and burnout levels in nurses. It was concluded that the nurses' quality of life levels were low, their burnout levels were high and their physical activity levels were not at the desired level.

Ýsimleri: ['Yasemen AYDIN', 'Yetkin Utku KAMUK']
Yayýn Yýlý: 30 Haziran 2021
Dergi ismi: Spor Bilimleri Araþtýrmalarý Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jssr/issue/62015/902511
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1659773
