Makale Baþlýðý Evaluation of Outdoor Fitness Equipment in Terms of Physical Activity, Health and Ergonomic

Öz
This study aims to identify people's experience of using outdoor fitness equipment in terms of physical activity, health and ergonomic. Within the scope of this study, individuals (94 females, 99 males, a total of 193 participants) who came to 20 parks with outdoor sports areas belonging to Ankara Çankaya Municipality, were interviewed with a face-to-face interview method consisting of 13 questions not exceeding 4 minutes. It was determined that the majority of individuals (65,28%) spent 46-60 minutes on sports. It was determined that 60,1% of the participants wanted to do sports in the company of an expert, but there was no statistically significant relationship (p> 0.05) between the state of doing sports in the company of an expert and their educational status. It was found that there is a significant difference between genders and some sports equipment used (p> 0.05). All the individuals (193 people) stated that they preferred the tools they used because they thought that certain parts of their bodies were activated. 12,4% of the participants had an injury in the outdoor sports areas they went to, and they stated that these injuries were mostly in the leg area (37,5%). However, there was no significant relationship between this disability, age, education level, and time allocated to sports (p> 0.05). When the ergonomic preference reasons for these areas are examined, it was discovered that transportation (4.53 points), location (4.36 points), and cleanliness (4.22 points) are important criteria for evaluating the outdoor sports areas used by individuals. Outdoor sports fields are preferred by users in many respects. Designing the outdoor sports areas ergonomically with exercise equipment suitable for all ages, enriching the walking paths with many alternatives, offering individuals the opportunity to exercise in these areas in the presence of experts is a cheap investment, but it is thought to be a very valuable step in terms of raising a healthy society.

Ýsimleri: ['Nasuh Evrim ACAR', 'Latif AYDOS']
Yayýn Yýlý: 30 Haziran 2021
Dergi ismi: Spor Bilimleri Araþtýrmalarý Dergisi
Yayýn sayfa url: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/pub/jssr/issue/62015/908565
Yayýn pdf linki: https://dergipark.org.tr/tr/download/article-file/1680422
